# Passive rider identification

In bicycles the rider’s mass is much larger than the vehicle’s mass. Hence, the rider influences the dynamic behaviour of the bicycle not only by means of voluntary control actions, but also by means of passive response of his/her body to bicycle oscillations. As a mater of fact, the rider’s body has inertial, stiffness and damping properties that are combined with the bicycle characteristics and affect the dynamic response of the whole system. More specific, the stabilization of dangerous oscillatory two-wheeler modes such as weave and wobble can be significantly influenced by the rider’s properties. For these reason, it is prerequisite to identify the passive response of the rider’s body to study the dynamic behaviour of the combined bicycle-rider system.

To measure the rider response an instrumented bicycle mock up fitted with strain gauges at all interfaces has been developed. The frame is designed to recreate the geometry of a hybrid bicycle and has a reach to handlebars equal to 32 cm and a stack height to handlebars equal to 75cm. The bicycle mock up is mounted on a top of a hexapod and is excited using colored noise perturbations in all 6 degrees of freedom (DoF). In addition to the force response of the rider body two IMU's are also used to track the motion of the upper torso of the rider. One IMU is placed on the base of the platform and one at the rider's sternum. 

The repository contains the following folders:

PVA_signal contains mat.script to generate the colored noise perturbation signals for all motions. Force_data folder contains the rider's force responses at all bicycle interfaces. IMU_data and IMU_data_Upper trunk includes the measured translational accelerations and angular velocities of the platform and rider's upper trunk accordingly. Data_analysis apparent mass (APMS) and seat-to-sternum transmissibility STST folder contains mat.script to obtain the tranfer functions (TRFs) for all motions. To run the TF_5_interfaces_24_subs.m and plot the TRFs of the APMS first run (motion)_interface_forces_24subs.m (located in Force_Data folder) to obtain the motion_force_signals_SI_t1_t2 and then copy paste them in the analysis folder, read Data analysing method MATLAB passive rider identification.docx to understand how the TRFs are obtained. Subjective data folder contains NASA TLX data and mat.script for analysis. CAD folder contains the solidworks drawings of the bicycle mock up designed by Toni Prats for his Bsc thesis (read Passive Rider Impedance - Toni Prats.pdf). Test bike.vi is the NI LabVIEW software used to analyze the analog signals of the strain gauges. Calibration.xlsx sheet contains the equations to transform  the analog voltage of the strain gauges to forces.  Voltage sign and locations.xlsx contains the voltage direction based on the bicycle reference frame. The combination of the aforementioned xlsx folders can be used to calculate the magnitude and sign of the applied handlebar forces. Test bike.vi is the NI LabVIEW software used to analyze the analog signals of the strain gauges. The ethnical folder contains the ethics application and approval report and techical device description and inspection approval which is prerequisite from TU Delft in order to proceed with Human-in-the-loop experiments. 






 
